[Music]
and eventually you come out with a
certain understanding at least of the
large structure the nature of of reality
where not simply creating a new Society
or a better Society or a new economy or
a new ecology we are actually giving
birth to a new form of the human species
I never expected anything like this to
emerge in the work I I didn't know that
this was even possible at the subtle
level of Consciousness you open up to
different levels of collective
Consciousness and so when your
individual identity Pops I have had the
experience many times of opening up to
my species identity to the collective
psyche well I'm always hesitant to jump
into this because my experience are
based upon
shamanic you know rigorous use of LSD
and when everyone hears LSD they think
all the 60s they think hallucinations
they think you know and this is very far
from this this is really within a
therapeutic tradition it's within Stang
grath's tradition it's the systematic
the systematic use of these very hyper
intense states of
awareness and when you engage these
states there is cycles of tremendous
purification tremendous death and reborn
and death and reborn but if you go
through it often enough deeply enough
there is a progressive initiation into
deeper and deeper levels of
reality um and eventually you come out
with a certain understanding at least of
the large structure the nature of of
reality and uh it's not easy to
summarize but I mean I've tried to do it
in this book I'm just finishing diamonds
from Heaven to describe the
progression one of the qualities of of
that come out of this vision of
cosmology is that there are many many
levels
to the cosmos the physical world is
simply kind of like a dense level and of
course there are layers and layers and
layers within the physical world as we
get into the quantum level but as you
build out into non-physical or
extraphysical Dimensions there are
levels layers and
layers and it's a repeated experience
that the lower levels are sourced in the
higher levels the higher levels are the
deeper levels are more intelligent
more intense
energetically um and they are more
conscious so the experience going out
into them is you're going into a more
conscious more powerful more Source
dimension of existence until eventually
you know you leave behind time space And
Then There are dimensions which Echo
time space the bar what the Tibetans
call the Bardo you know the the
intermediate dimensions and one can go
eventually even beyond all the Echoes of
time and space and enter what uh some of
the spiritual Traditions would call
extra samsaric reality a reality beyond
all the cycles of death and rebirth and
enter in the domain of just pure light
just just pure light and the quantum
physicists say everything all molecules
are ultimately rooted in light you know
photons are light and I find that's true
when in the domain of Consciousness in
the universe that one perceives is that
ultimately all physical reality is
sourced in an ocean of light an ocean of
Radiance you can't take your ego into
that reality and have an experience of
that reality you can only enter those
realities by surrendering what you were
in the lower realities and it's not that
these lower realities are inferior or
bad or evil or or anything like that it
it's just that they are more specific
manifestation of progressively
individualized ized manifestation of
this larger reality so that you reverse
the process when you go out into that
reality you have to decouple let go of
you know at deeper level so that you
literally become for hours at a time a
citizen of that level of reality you
have to stop being Cris you have to stop
being a human being you have to stop
being a time space being at all you you
literally live and
breathe the nature of that
existence there is a sense always of
profound homecoming of profound return
you know that we came all existence
comes from this reality so there's that
tremendous sense of of uh Stillness calm
reunion
um uh being restored to your Primal
wholeness um
and one gets the sense that these levels
are constantly infusing and informing
this
reality we have a theory of evolution
which our theories of evolution are
partly right and partly deeply
incomplete we think it's all Happening
by chance screened by necessity you know
it's
all but it I my experience is it's not
being driven by chance I mean chance has
a factor but there is a a tremendous
intelligence manifesting itself in the
self- emergent quality of time and space
so there is a there is an intelligence
manifesting it's not a god outside
manipulating and it's not even like
Creative Design kind of manipulating but
it's a self- arising intelligence a
self-emerging intelligence it's
manifesting ever more complex forms of
life and it's evolving and it's changing
one of the other things that comes when
you move into these deep Dimensions you
move Beyond linear time as we
conventionally know it into deep
dimensions of time and sometimes even
Beyond any time sense of time whatsoever
but when you're coming in and out of
these different states you get a
perspective
of that this reality is changing we know
this it's changing but you get a sense
of where it's changing too what the next
phase of human evolution might be where
we seem to be going and we're going
somewhere and there is an intelligence
expressing itself in this process and so
the end result there's a sense in
which I trust you just learn to trust
where you are that there is an a wisdom
in where you are doing what you're doing
and somehow each one of our works
contribute to the larger pattern of the
creative intelligence manifesting it
myself inside time and
space I was totally uh completely
surprised I never expected anything like
this to emerge in the work I I didn't
know that this was even possible I had
never seen it addressed in the
Psychedelic
literature but when you when you pop the
B the bubble of the ego when when you
pop you don't simply drip drop
into unitive conscious or Oneness
Consciousness but you open up into
different at the subtle level of
Consciousness you open up to different
levels of collective Consciousness and
so when your individual identity pops
you I have had the experience many times
of opening up to my species identity
opening up to the collective psyche to
and I found that that species
Consciousness is coherent Carl Yung was
right and there is a coherent species
mind and as the shamanic traditions and
when you touch the species mind in deep
States Of Consciousness it's only
natural that insights into what the
evolutionary progression of the growth
process of this species is and I over
many years I had repeated experiences
doing taking me deeper and deeper and
teaching me there was a Consciousness
teaching me what's what what's happening
and and showing me that the visions that
came I'll just report the Visions for
whatever was that Humanity was coming
into a time of tremendous fruition that
we had been un developing for hundreds
of thousands of years and we were coming
to a
pinnacle a a tremendous Great Awakening
A A an opening of a a new level of
Consciousness in humanity and that this
was a pivot point everything we had
accomplished would kind of quickly
become POS say as we pivoted into this
new platform of
Consciousness but for there to be a a
Great Awakening a birth of a new
Consciousness there must first take
place a great death as the mystics go
through a Dark Night of the soul to
awaken into Divine Consciousness
Humanity was going to have to go through
a great dark KN of the soul of our
Collective Soul in order to purge
Purge the karmic residue of all of its
egoic driven competitions hostility
violence the things we do to each
other the things we can't take that you
know this world we live in is a world
built by ego we are moving into a larger
reality and we have to we have to let go
of all those old restrictive
poisons and I think we're we're coming
into a time of great crisis the Visions
showed me that we're coming into a a
dark night of
purification I I don't know the details
of it I just have experienced it uh I
think it's going to be starting in the
21st century I don't know how long it
will last I don't know how long we'll go
through but it'll it's a time of loss of
control of breaking down of of of a
destructuring of Life as we know
it but coming out of
it we not simply creating a new Society
or a better Society or a new economy or
a new ecology we are actually giving
birth to a new form of the human species
we're a we're the the fundamental
architecture of the collective psyche is
pivoting and as it pivots we will We are
giving birth to a new blueprint for
Humanity and the way I've seen it
manifesting is in in the Visions in in
my psychedelic experience and other
experiences reincarnation is just
accepted as a matter of fact so we we
die we go we're born we die we're born
keeps going up keep going on and
Lifetime by LifeTime we rewind we're
we're collecting more and more
experiences and in my sessions we
reached a point where I was
reintegrating all my former lives we're
coming together like winding kite string
around a a spool and it it hit a
critical mass and it exploded into the
most brilliant luminous Diamond light in
my heart it just exploded in
me and I think what I saw in this
experience what I what I was being shown
was where reincarnation is taking us
we're not just going through class from
the first grade to the second grade to
the third grade we're not simply adding
incremental improvements in our life but
sooner or later we come to a fusion
point where all of our souls all of our
Lives all of our experiences hit a
critical mass and are fused and when
that happens the soul awakens inside the
human body when we die we return to the
soul the mega Consciousness that holds
us all but this is an Awakening of the
Soul inside time and space and I think
that's the future human that we're
birthing
we've been gestating this Consciousness
for hundreds of thousands of years we're
giving birth to it now but most of the
work has been done most of the work has
been done in history but now it's time
for all of this inner development to to
manifest and I think when we awaken as
Souls when we when our deep
Consciousness awakens it will change
life on our
planet that because it it will make our
mind safe because our heart will be open
and we will no longer represent a danger
to each other and to other species on
the planet and there'll be a much easier
communion with the deeper creative
consciousness of the universe so that
appear a time of
tremendous creativity acceleration of
creativity and in my very end of this
long 20year journey the very last
sessions I was
put through a tremendous strip down
process and thrown deep into the future
I don't know how far but deep into the
future and allowed to experience it felt
like I I tried I was allowed to try on
that form and the most beautiful
beautiful being just extraordinary
being and I it's really important for us
to understand that we are giving birth
to something magnificent because if we
don't have a vision of what's happening
in history we will get swallowed by the
pain of the purification that's coming
and we we must hold firm we must stand
firm and not get not yield to
despair a mother giving birth is in
terrible pain but she knows what she's
doing we are giving birth we have to
understand what we're
doing I mean we have have a tendency in
our theologies and in our stories that
we tell to explain our existence to
think very statically of human nature
because it doesn't seem to be changing
too fast so we think of static human
nature static human nature but when you
when you expand the Horizon even
intellectually or with imagination or
experientially when you expand the time
Horizon at least what I was given to
experience was that humanity is built
for speed and it has to do with each of
our learning Cycles or 100 years 100
years 100 years 100 years but the
universe does not think in 100e
increments the universe thinks in
billions and trillions of year
increments and from that perspective
Humanity it seems to be designed for
Accelerated Evolution so that you know
in the long
scale we're moving very fast through
time so all of our history all of our
every all the pains we've done the
mistakes we've made the we've done we're
carrying them in our
person but we can shed them if our
concentration if our awareness is
intensified as I think they will be
intensified in the trials that are
coming if we pay attention and do our
work well and live very deeply We Can
Shed that past very quickly and as we
shed that past we can enact the soul in
history he had the he tells his story in
four journeys of being being taken into
the not great distant future he later
said it was about Thousand Years out
where uh when he was taken into that
future and looked back that all of the
BAU was emptied all of the all the souls
in the ble were emptied and there was a
much cleaner and clearer communion
between physical beings and uh
Consciousness spiritual consciousness
and and there was a it was easier to
kind of do a temporary visit to kind of
come into share physical life form leave
it alone come back into spiritual
reality and I think that's kind of simp
that's another way of describing what
we're going to because the BAU is this
layered reality surrounding time and
space where it's filled with soul
fragments unintegrated pieces of
experiences at different levels and as
we become more integrated as we become
more coherent we're emptying the BAU and
as we empty the BAU the communion
between deep spiritual reality and
physical reality becomes easier becomes
clear we've seen it happen for
individuals there are great Saints who
are translucent to this reality but I
think they are foreshadowing what's
happening for the whole species and
we're going into that direction as a as
an entire
species I I think we have an
extraordinary future ahead we have to we
have to some hard
work but
underneath yeah and you other thing that
has come through my sessions is uh that
the Divine is very happy with us and
everything that everything is right on
time I mean we have we make so many
mistakes we do so many things badly but
in the long
view the sense I get is
that we're working hard and we're doing
a pretty good job and it's going to be
more hard work
but overall the Divine is very pleased
and again I hate to use the word the
Divine but the creative consciousness of
the
universe uh is very happy with what's
happening you
[Music]
toe long to
[Applause]
[Music]
more of Fe
[Laughter]
[Music]